This is the former home
of the Los Angeles Ledger.
In 1985,
it became a house of horrors
for three friends,
each molested by this man:
Arnold Winslow,
a teacher from the children's
elementary school.
Winslow lured them on separate
occasions and raped them,
threatening to kill the boys
if they divulged the truth.
FBI agents arrested Winslow,
but not before he left
an indelible mark.
25 years later,
Sean Westmark, Devin Shepard
and Matt Burrows
each carry very different scars.
Sean turned adversity
into success,
becoming one of the most
successful litigation
attorneys
in the history of California
and a likely candidate
for the next mayoral election.
Devin turned misfortune
into fortune, literally,
because he is currently the
author of a bestselling book
on personal healing
and coping with crises.
Fate would not be kind
for Matt Burrows.
After years of battling
drugs and depression,
he committed suicide.
Family and friends
say in recent weeks,
he appeared more
troubled than normal.
I would agree.
Because, you see, Matt Burrows
isn't just part of this story.
He's my brother.
Okay. Rise and shine.
There you go.
Is it already 8:00?
Yeah, I'm afraid so.
You know, you might want to find
a new use for Occam's razor.
In ancient India, beards
were held in such reverence,
they could be cut off
and used as a form of payment.
That's all right.
You can stay for free.
Actually, do you have a pair
of scissors? -(knock on door)
Larry Fleinhardt?
Uh, yes. That would be me.
Bring it in, boys!
-Boys?!
Ah, my notebooks have arrived.
It'll be fine right there.
I had a lot
of free time in the desert.
Hey.
How you doing?
Uh, headquarters called.
Seems we've been
a little bit lax
about our in service records.
Yeah? By "we," you mean...?
You.
-Uh-huh, and by "lax"...?
Two years behind
every other office. -Mm-hmm.
Colby has to do
a five-year financial check,
and Charlie has
to have a polygraph test.
(chuckles):
Oh. Good luck with that.
It's a test, man.
He's a genius, right?
Hey, Granger.
Bud, how about some help, man?
Ooh.
That looks like
supervisor stuff to me.
Don, Mary Paulson the reporter
wants some face time.
She's doing a retrospective
on a kidnapping case
the FBI solved back in '85.
The case agent's dead,
so HQ requested
you take the interview.
Oh, that's all yours, boss man.
Man...
Hey, Colby, how about
you take that one, man?
No way.
-Actually, that's an order.
Take Nikki. Flip for it.
There you go.
(siren wailing in distance)
Tails. You lose again.
How is it 50-50
if you win every time?
Hey, take it up with Charlie.
You look good on camera.
Plus, you, uh,
you don't need any makeup.
You can just keep on
what you have.
PAULSON:
...make a great shot, yeah.
Oh, hi. Mary Paulson.
Pleasure to meet you.
Agent Granger
and Agent Betancourt.
Yeah, here, roll on this, yeah.
We've arranged for
Sean Westmark and Devin Shepard
to meet for the first time
in nearly a decade.
Devin.
Sean, how are you?
-How you been?
Pretty good. Yourself?
-(gunfire)
Everybody down!
Get down!
Come here behind the car.
(gunfire continues)
Okay, 10:00. Cover me.
-You okay?
-Yeah. Check him.
Stay down.
Stay down!
Is he going to be okay?
He's dead.
(gunfire continues)
(indistinct radio transmission)
Got no shell casings,
no footprints.
This guy either watches
a lot of the History Channel
or we're dealing with a pro.
Well, he took out Shepard
with the first shot,
so we got to assume that
that was his target.
On the other hand,
he kept firing.
Could be you got
to Sean Westmark before he had
a chance to finish the job.
Did you know Shepard
sold close to a million books
over the last three years?
How to Get the Most
Out of You:
Synergize Every Day.
I mean, what the hell
does that even mean?
I have no idea.
Hey, you know, actually, I've
been meaning to talk to you
about your, uh,
your financial update.
There's a series
of overseas transactions
I want to just, you know...
-Sure, sure.
Yep, no problem.
Hey, buddy,
ERT needs me downstairs.
Hey, Granger,
your phone didn't even beep.
All right, I'll call Amex.
You know, I'd hate to lose
those rewards points.
AMITA:
This is incredible.
Well, you got to give credit to
a pollution-free
desert sky for that.
Hey. For as long as you guys
have known me,
what has been my fantasy?
You want me
to talk about that here?
I meant academically.
To teach at Cambridge.
No.
-Yeah.
-Yes.
"On behalf of the
University of Cambridge,
"it gives me great pleasure
to invite you to join
"our faculty
as a visiting professor
for the upcoming term."
That's incredible, Charlie!
It's incredible!
Hey, congratulations, Charles.
Thank you.
I thought they were
considering you for 2012.
They were, but then a slot
opened up unexpectedly.
And the best part:
they have room
in their budget
for two visiting professors.
I'm highly flattered,
but I just got back...
I meant Amita.
We're going to England!
-Going to England.
(both chuckle)
Do you two realize you will be
walking the same halls
as Francis Bacon,
Isaac Newton, Charles Darwin?
We can rent a cottage
in the countryside,
eat strawberries and cream
at Wimbledon.
We have to leave
before the summer?
I know. We're gonna have
to push back
the wedding date,
but how often does
an opportunity
like this come up?
(gunshots, glass shattering
over video)
Here's where
the cameraman gets shot.
See there?
That's our shooter.
Well, I just spoke
to the hospital.
Leo's going to pull through.
That's one tough cameraman
you got there.
Any luck?
We got a guy who might be able
to do something with this.
What is he, a magician?
He's been known to pull
an occasional rabbit
out of his hat.
No offense,
but I did read
The 9/11 Commission Report.
That DVD goes somewhere,
so do I.
(knocks)
Oh, Ms. Paulson.
(chuckles)
Uh, they didn't tell me
you were coming.
I've actually been
a fan of yours
since you were
the anchor at Channel 10.
Thank you.
-Here's the footage.
Okay, great.
Please take a seat.
You think you can work
some of your scientific voodoo
and pull an image
of the shooter?
If by "voodoo" you mean
point-pattern matching
and line detection, yes.
(whispers):
Ask him what he's talking about.
What are you talking about?
Um, well,
imagine a team of scientists
trying to sequence
a strand of DNA
from a piece of bacteria.
There are billions
of possible combinations.
The sample of DNA is loaded
into a sequencer,
which sorts through
the combinations of nucleotides,
picking only the pieces
or molecules
that have relevant information,
until the helices are all
assembled in the correct order.
Now, what you have here
is no different,
because each second of video
is actually made up
of 30 individual frames.
Multiplied by three minutes,
that's 5,400 frames.
Now, you factor in
security cameras
from surrounding buildings,
DOT footage,
you're talking about thousands
and thousands of frames.
So, like the DNA machine,
your math looks for
individual frames
that have images-- partial
or whole-- of the shooter
and sorts the bits and pieces
into a linear sequence?
My star pupil.
(Nikki giggles)
Hey, FYI, Teach,
David's looking for you.
Something about a polygraph.
(sighs)
You happen to tutor
for that exam?
MAN:
Mike Nash.
-Sean's chief of staff.
-Uh, hey, Don Eppes.
-This is David Sinclair.
-Why don't you guys
go ahead and take a seat.
Thanks. That's you, huh?
Yep.
Sean and I were throwing
snowballs since we were five,
footballs at ten.
By the time we were 23,
we traded it all in for bullets.
Not a memory most people
would keep around.
You don't know Sean.
See, that reminds him to fight
the good fight every day.
He stood up to that bastard.
Walked into that courtroom--
he was fearless.
Pointed his finger at Winslow--
he put him behind bars.
Ignore him. He sometimes acts
more like my publicist
than my chief of staff.
Sean Westmark.
Don Eppes.
-David Sinclair. -Pleasure.
Sit, please.
Cannot imagine who
would want to kill Devin.
It's possible you were
the intended target.
You know, you... you have made
some enemies.
Tobacco giants
and pharmaceutical companies
don't hire hit men,
they hire lawyers.
Any idea who might
want to hurt you guys?
Winslow-- but he died in 1991.
LAPD found his wallet
smeared with blood,
but, uh, they never
recovered a body.
Your dad was brought in
for questioning.
It's 'cause he was in
the Marine Corps.
He was back East on business
when Winslow went missing.
What, you guys think that
his father shot Devin?
Uh, forgive me, gentlemen,
but the L.A. Times is waiting.
Anything else we can do,
please call, okay?
Sure.
-Absolutely anything.
You got it.
AMITA:
Guess who?
Larry, I've been looking
everywhere for you.
We don't have to wait
until we're back from England
to get married.
Oh, yeah?
-Yep.
I hold in my hands
Barcelona, Lake Como,
the Amalfi Coast and Paris.
All the most romantic
cities in the world,
all within a few hours
train ride of Cambridge,
all suitable for a wedding.
Sounds interesting.
You don't seem excited.
No, I totally... I'm excited.
I just got this case
and this polygraph test
to look forward to.
But you like the idea?
-I love the idea.
We're going to put together
a decision tree,
and that'll help us
pick the best city. -(beep)
Okay.
I think you need to call Nikki.
I don't think
she's ever been to Europe.
I mean, we can ask her.
No, about the case.
I think you just discovered
who killed Devin Shepard.
Charlie just sent this over.
Hmm. Looks like a filmstrip.
This is, uh,
point-pattern matching
or edge detection--
something like that.
Gotcha.
Oh, that's Mike Nash.
PAULSON:
There he is.
Remember, you can film,
but you can't interfere.
(siren whoops)
Hold on.
(tires screech)
What, do you guys practice that?
Nah, that's just
the way he drives.
Let's go, give me your hands.
Look, I'm not saying crap,
except I want to see a doctor.
Well, you've known Devin Shepard
since, what'd you tell me,
you were five years old?
A .30 caliber round
through the heart.
Ooh, is that what
you do to your friends?
Friends understand loyalty.
Let me ask you something.
You know what it means
to keep a promise?
Devin made money based on
what happened to us.
Us?
Yeah, us.
My father was a real evil
son of a bitch.
And if he knew
that his son was...
I'd have been disowned.
But Sean-- he protected me.
He kept me out of it.
But it sounds like
Devin did, too, Mike,
so I don't really understand.
He sold a movie
based on our nightmare.
A movie.
So somebody needed to man up
and end it.
Well, sniper shot
at 150 yards away.
Yeah, that's real manly.
I spent a month in Africa
doing a documentary on children
who worked in the diamond mines.
I never thought
I'd be shocked again.
First day here, I learned
there are no routine cases.
All these years,
my brother kept Mike's secret,
even from me.
He sounds like an honorable guy.
That's what bothers me
about his suicide.
He had his problems.
Matt...
he valued life.
You think maybe
he didn't kill himself?
He was nervous, paranoid
the week before he hung himself.
I don't exactly
sound like an investigative
reporter, do I?
Hey, you sound like a sister.
Let me check the reports
for you.
Excuse me. Where is he?
He's in the interrogation room.
-You've been talking to him?
What happened to Miranda?
He waived his rights.
He shot Devin Shepard.
(sighs)
Listen...
Mike and I...
No matter what,
he's still entitled to a lawyer.
Thank you.
(phones ringing)
Hey.
Larry, what a surprise.
No, you...
Didn't you say stop by?
I didn't exactly mean today.
(chuckles)
Oh. -But wait a minute,
now that you're here,
let's-let's have lunch.
KATH: Alan, how are the
software updates
for transportation
and zoning analysis
coming along?
Uh, we got initial data
from our beta test sites.
I'll have more results
later this afternoon.
Larry Fleinhardt.
"From Classroom to Cosmos."
You're the Rocket Man.
Listen, that's a title bestowed
upon me by the blogosphere.
Tell me about liftoff.
All the thrust and energy
must be really something.
The rocket booster
exploding with fuel.
Well, actually there's three.
There's a dark orange tank
we call "E.T.,"
there's two white SRBs.
I could draw a picture.
-I want you.
I beg your pardon?
-Working with us.
I want you.
-Oh, no.
No, I'm flattered, no.
-Oh, excuse me.
I don't...
-I-I've got to run.
Yeah, I don't have time...
Gosh.
She is something, right?
-You know, she's
reminiscent of the asteroid
Hermes, creating a sensation
as it passes less than a million
kilometers from the Earth,
before just disappearing again.
Yeah, I know exactly
what you're talking about.
(beeping)
You know,
I think I may be allergic
to this rubber here,
'cause I'm terribly itchy.
And I did some
chest presses yesterday,
-and this thing is
pressing against me... -Charlie.
I'm very sore.
It's terribly uncomfortable.
Just calm down, Charlie, okay?
Everybody with your level
of security clearance
-has to take a polygraph test.
-I know.
It's just my...
my breasts are sore.
All right.
I'm just gonna ask you
a few routine questions,
all right?
Okay.
So, is your name Charlie Eppes?
Well... well, technically,
it's Charles Eppes.
My parents wanted to name me
Isaac when I was born,
which would've been disastrous.
My Hebrew name
would've been Yitzhak.
Okay, just, uh, if you can
answer "yes" or "no."
-Right, yes.
-All right.
See, that was easy.
Have you ever stolen anything
over $500 in your life?
I stole a 1981 Reggie Jackson
Topps baseball card.
I don't think
that's worth $500, right?
Mark Carroll and I were
flipping cards
during lunch one day,
and the wind blew
his Reggie Jackson away.
So, I put together
a modified K index,
and I tracked the card's path.
I found it,
but he left for camp the
next day, so I just took it.
Next question.
All right, so...
Have you, uh, ever committed
a violent crime?
(machine beeping rapidly)
Uh... I'm a murderer.
I was six, which would make
Don ten at the time, and he
brought the class gerbil home
for Christmas break.
It was so cute,
and I was playing with him
while I was conducting
an experiment one day, and...
who knew that gerbil fur
was so flammable?
You understand what I'm asking?
I'm asking have you ever
committed a violent crime?
Just "yes" or "no."
I left the cage door open,
and I just told Don
that he ran away, but...
I'm a heinous monster.
This machine
has a power over me.
I really need to take a break.
-Absolutely.
Take five minutes.
Water, some yoga,
maybe just relax.
I got the ERT results
on Matt Burrows' death.
There were
two fresh samples of DNA
found on the rope
that he used to hang himself.
One was his, and one wasn't.
So there was someone else
in the room with him, huh?
His sister's got good instincts.
I knew Matt
wouldn't kill himself.
This second set of DNA
proves he was murdered.
All it confirms
is that another individual
was present when he died.
It could've been
an assisted suicide.
Who discovered the body?
I did.
We were supposed
to go to dinner.
After, did you hire a crew?
Did you clean up?
No, I locked the door
and I haven't been back.
The place was wiped clean.
No prints on the counters
or the doorknobs.
Well, Matt was a slob.
He didn't even own a bottle
of Windex or a rag.
The building doesn't have
a doorman or a security camera.
So, it's gonna be hard
to track down
whoever else was there.
CHARLIE:
Maybe not.
Fingerprints contain acid,
which wears away or corrodes
virtually any metal surface--
countertops, door knobs-- even
after they've been wiped clean.
How's that?
Um, would you happen
to have any powder?
Oh...
How about a comb?
You think I can get
a comb through this?
Hey, Sinclair.
Uh, yeah?
-Your girlfriend happen to have
a comb in his desk?
Uh, you need a comb?
Hold on.
Oh.
-Good?
Perfect, thanks.
-All right.
You know what?
I don't even want to know.
Okay, well, uh...
(clears throat)
imagine that this
is a fine conducting powder.
I rub the comb on my sweater,
which simulates an electrical
charge that can be applied
to the various metal
surfaces in the apartment.
The teeth of the comb
are the indents
made by the corrosion
from the acid
on your fingerprints.
So, where it sticks,
it's a print.
Fast learner.
-How long before
you can get us some results?
Well, really, that falls
under the auspices
of the FBI lab.
With me and Amita leaving,
they should get used to
solving crimes
by themselves again.
(chuckles)
(coughing)
Oh, hey, listen,
thanks for taking me to lunch.
You know, that may be
the first time
that I've taken an hour's break
since I've been working there.
Yeah, you have to pace yourself,
Alan.
We're not scampering
children anymore.
Hmm, tell me about it.
At work, I'm surrounded
by zygotes with iPhones
and skateboards.
You know, this may be
my last chance to do something
really meaningful for society.
-You know,
I would argue you've already
made a lasting imprint.
Yeah, from the man
who's been to space.
I haven't been east
of Utah in, what, ten years?
No, but your boys
both excel in their fields.
They have saved
hundreds of lives. -Mm-hmm.
Soon you will have a daughter,
grandchildren.
Ah! -You've done
all of this without
leaving the comfort
of your own home.
I think I see why you like
that garage so much.
Hey, hey, hey.
Why do you have
multiple e-mail accounts?
One for personal,
one for business,
one for, you know, things.
Nikki's waiting on me,
all right?
Nik, the ERT report
on Matt Burrows' apartment
and his phone records.
You wired money
to a man in Italy
who's on Interpol's hot list.
Okay, you really want to know?
Yeah.
-Fine, fine.
I hate it
when Mom and Dad fight.
Should've known this was
going to come out.
Dolls?
Army dolls.
I don't know whether
I should laugh or cry.
I'm going to laugh.
(laughing)
Hey, whoa, check that.
I had techs run the phone
records for Sean, Devin,
Mike and Matt
over the past year.
One number common to all four.
And the same person called
Matt Burrows three times.
Hours before he died.
COLBY:
"American Pioneer Hotel,"
Los Angeles--
why does that sound familiar?
Because Arnold Winslow,
the guy who raped Matt Burrows--
that's the last place
he was seen alive.
Oh, yeah, but that was
nearly 20 years ago.
I mean, Winslow is supposed
to be dead.
NIKKI:
Yeah, I thought so, too.
Oh, it gets better.
ERT ran Charlie's
Mr. Wizard test.
Look whose prints they found
in Matt Burrows' apartment.
Winslow's alive.
He's been calling the four men
that he tortured
when they were kids.
I think he murdered
Matt Burrows.
(indistinct yelling)
So, Mike, it turns out
Arnold Winslow is alive.
Great. You got an address?
Maybe five minutes
alone with him?
We know he called you.
And I hung up
on his twisted ass.
One call for a minute
and change,
the other for 38 seconds.
Those aren't hang-ups;
those are conversations.
He also called Matt quite a bit.
He was at his apartment
the day he died.
So Winslow murdered him.
We're not so sure about that.
There's no way
it's a coincidence.
Like Winslow
turning out to be alive
and Devin Shepard
getting killed?
(whispers):
Wow.
So what do you got?
Winslow's Svengali
and I'm his puppet?
(chuckles)
Sorry, fellas.
Back to the drawing board.
Winslow called me
a couple months back.
He was living in some dump.
He saw how well I was doing,
and he figured
that I owed him something
for putting him in jail.
Pretty warped sense of reality.
Do I need to explain
the mind of a sociopath to you?
In Winslow's head, he thinks
we have a relationship.
Why didn't you contact
the police? -And tell them what?
Tell them Winslow's alive and
he's, uh, asking me for money
and start rehashing
everything that I put behind me?
I told Mike to deal with it.
He gave him 500 bucks,
he told him to disappear.
COLBY: Winslow was in the Corps
from '82 to '84.
Went in a private,
left the same way.
Yeah, it's post-Vietnam,
but they were
still teaching people
how to kill, right?
It says, uh, "Other than
honorable discharge."
That's the Army's way
of sweeping
an uncomfortable situation
under the rug.
Psych eval says,
"Confused sexual tendencies,
most likely a sociopathic
personality disorder."
And he gets a job as
an elementary school teacher.
Ah, the record was sealed.
That was part
of the discharge deal.
NIKKI:
Hey, guys.
You know how Winslow called
Sean, Matt and Devin
from the same hotel?
Manager never heard
of Arnold Winslow,
but he did I.D.
the photo that the techs altered
to show what Winslow
looks like today.
He registered as Kurt Stark
and checked out a week ago.
I'm gonna guess DMV came up
snake eyes on Stark.
Good guess.
But the car registered
to Stark's room
actually came back
to a Nick Roland.
Got plenty on him.
So it looks like Arnold Winslow
isn't the only one with
a penchant for little boys.
Why are you looking at me?
'Cause your head was in
the way of the screen.
Nick Roland did his
time at the same prison
as Winslow.
Ah, it shouldn't be
too hard to find him.
LAPD picked him up
a month ago on drug possession.
Nick Roland?
Whatever you think I did,
I didn't.
Doing my six months in here
and getting the hell out.
Maybe we can make
your six months a little easier.
Your pal Winslow--
found your car at his hotel.
Excuse me.
Come on, Nick.
You two practically
shared a cell at Chino.
'91, when they let him out,
they wouldn't leave him alone.
Who?
-The parents.
Put his photo
on telephone poles,
left notes on his door,
slashed his tires.
Man did his time;
he deserved to be let alone.
So he faked his death?
Arnold was a Marine.
He knew a thing or two
about surviving.
Disappeared.
When he came back a few years
later, had a new identity.
That identity have a name?
Jay.
Jeff Jay.
Thanks.
AMITA: Hey.
Hey.
So, how'd the
lie detector test go?
A few more minutes,
I would have admitted to
cutting the brakes
on Amelia Earhart's plane.
Yeah, well,
there are worse traits
than honesty.
Guess you didn't have time
to input these
into a decision tree.
No. With the case and all...
What's happening?
What are you doing?
The Ramanujan lie detector test.
It's not as fancy as the FBI's,
but it's just as effective.
You don't want to get married
in Europe, do you?
Wow, this really does work.
The cost of travel these days,
the dollar's really weak.
I want our friends
and family to be there
to celebrate with us.
Well...
Okay.
You know, I get it.
It's not practical.
We'll get married
when we come home.
PAULSON: Winslow must have
murdered my brother
and made it look like a suicide.
But why do you think he would
go after your brother
after all these years?
Because he's a sick psychopath.
He was obsessed with Matt.
Yeah, I'm gonna
tell you something.
In the weeks before
your brother died,
he and Winslow
were talking a lot
on the phone.
And those calls went both ways.
Winslow was
a shop teacher.
The-the boys loved hearing his
stories about being a Marine.
After school,
he taught private classes.
The shop was just
a couple of blocks
from the old Ledger building.
They would, uh,
build slot cars
and all kinds of cool stuff.
But Winslow had to pick you.
It was a really big deal.
That's how he'd molest them?
When he told Matt
it was his turn,
you should have seen
how excited he was.
They met after school,
just the two of them.
I could tell
that something had happened,
but Matt would never tell me.
(sniffles)
I met your brother.
Yeah?
You're very lucky
to be able to work together.
Yeah.
We are, huh?
Have you ever done anything
that you were so ashamed of
that you couldn't tell anyone?
Not even him?
Watch this.
MAN:
Don't do it!
(blows landing, man screaming)
Oh! Don't!
Help me! Help me!
(grunts)
Hey, what happened?
Everything all ri...?
(man screaming)
(man laughing)
Oh, no.
(screaming)
Is that Arnold Winslow?
Who did that to him?
Can't tell.
It's pretty much all shadows,
so, you know, it's really
impossible to see anything.
Maybe it's not so impossible.
(whispers):
Okay.
What do you see?
A duck.
A duck? It's got ears.
These are the ears.
It's a rabbit.
Looks like a duck.
-It's supposed
to be a rabbit. -(mutters)
All right, whatever.
Listen, when I separate
my two hands, you see two hands.
Well, it's no different
with this video.
We've got overlapping shadows
of the attackers and the victim.
We have a time stamp
on this video.
That'll tell us the position
of the moon that night. -Uh-huh.
We factor in
additional light sources,
maybe a few measurements
on the ground...
we can separate these shadows.
Once we have
the individual shadows,
I can do a simple gait analysis.
I'm gonna miss you, buddy.
I'm gonna miss you, too.
Even if you did kill my gerbil.
I thought those tests were
supposed to be confidential.
Mom had to rush out.
She had to get another one,
remember?
And I thought my whole class
was gonna hate me.
I know. I thought you were gonna
kill me, man.
Guess I wasn't really much
of a role model, huh?
Role model?
You didn't hang out
with me a lot
when I was a kid.
So, yeah, you were
a crappy role model, but...
it's okay.
What happens when you're a kid
doesn't have to haunt you
for the rest
of your life, right?
Like to think I changed
a little bit, though.
You totally did.
That's why,
after all these years,
I've finally been able
to forgive you.
Thanks.
Although, just to be clear,
I haven't forgiven you.
(sighs)
I mean, you lit his fur on fire?
Mr. Winks?
He had a family.
The worse part was the smell.
Smelled like a combination
of bananas and polyurethane.
(laughs)
Phew! He was gone.
(Winslow screaming on monitor)
Video time stamp puts it
six months after Winslow
was released from prison.
That man made a lot of enemies.
From this video, it looks like
one of them caught up with him.
Three.
One was holding
the video camera,
while the others were raping him
with a baseball bat.
So of course it's got to be me.
-Come on.
You were 16 years old.
Your testosterone mixed
with too much beer.
You were looking for payback.
When I was ten years old,
I stood up in court
and I testified
against Arnold Winslow.
That is my idea of revenge.
"Either you believe
in our system of justice...
or you don't."
There aren't two sets
of standards, Sean,
regardless of what happened
to you in 1985.
Wow.
(chuckles)
With all due respect, David,
you don't have a clue
what happened in 1985.
Or '91.
-Twenty-two!
-(indistinct shouting)
-Got him.
-Yes!
Nice.
Good play.
Good day, good day.
NIKKI:
What do you think?
LIZ: Ugly, no matter
what name he uses.
Let's go get him.
Mary Paulson.
Did you murder Matt Burrows,
one of the boys that...
Crap. What is she doing here?
-...'85?
What are you talking about?
Who are you? Get away from me!
The FBI has your DNA evidence
at the crime scene.
Did you kill my brother?!
-FBI!
-Hey!
(indistinct shouting)
Yo. Yo, heads up.
-What's going on?
(grunts loudly)
FBI! You're under arrest!
-All right, everyone stay back!
Keep rolling, Leo.
-(groaning)
Great clothesline, buddy.
-(handcuffs clicking)
(screams)
Hey.
-Hey.
Are you analyzing terrorist
camps for the CIA again?
Shadow analysis
of some old video for Don.
You know, my measurements
are sound,
I pulled data from NASA,
and the math is all correct,
but the results are off.
Is that the date
you've been using?
-Yeah.
You need to be calculating
for a full moon.
I mean, look at
your frame there.
The date and the time stamp
on the camera--
that's wrong.
Those are incorrect.
Of course!
Okay, so I need
to look up the date...
No. January 30,
February 28,
March 30, April 28.
Uh, ditto for May.
June's the 27th.
July is 26.
August 25.
Then September,
October 23.
November, December 21.
Larry... I'm glad you're back.
Speaking of which,
with you and Amita going away
and this supercomputer
taking its sweet time
with my data,
I'm thinking about asking Don
if I could just, uh,
you know, pick up
some of the slack.
He'd be thrilled to have you.
As thrilled as he gets.
T.E. Lawrence,
The Seven Pillars of Wisdom?
Yeah. Lawrence of Arabia.
The ultimate
desert survival tool.
Hey, there's a location idea
for your wedding.
Very uncluttered.
Our decision tree says Milan,
but I'm thinking
a wedding in Italy,
or anywhere overseas,
is not very economical.
Lawrence was able
to capture Aqaba
because the Turks didn't think
he could survive
a desert crossing.
Surprise her.
Your prints and DNA
were all over
Matt Burrows' apartment.
You think I killed Matty?
Billion to one chance
that you didn't.
We know they raped you.
Matt Burrows had a videotape.
After I moved home.
But it wasn't
really home anymore;
everything had changed.
Sean and Matt and all of them--
they weren't kids anymore.
I made a point to avoid them.
I didn't want any trouble.
One night,
I was walking home
and they jumped me.
Took me on a ride.
And after
they were done with me,
they left me choking
on my own blood.
I would have died,
but Matt came back,
and he turned me over.
But everybody
thought you were dead.
-Yep.
-Yeah.
It was Matt's idea about Mexico.
I wouldn't be alive
if it wasn't for him.
He's the last person
I'd ever hurt.
You phoned each of them several
times over the last month.
Matt, three times
the day he died.
Yeah.
After I got back from Mexico,
Matt and I... talked.
He felt guilty
about what they'd done to me.
And he told me
there was a videotape.
Proof.
Sean and Devin had pretty nice
careers going for them.
And I figured a rape charge,
even against me--
that'd mess up
their lives pretty good.
(bangs table)
What were you doing
at Matt's apartment?
I was trying to find
a copy of the videotape.
$500 didn't get me very far.
By the time I got there,
he was dead,
so I wiped the place down.
I panicked. I ran.
You have that murderer there,
and I'm under arrest?
Winslow was on public property.
I had every right to pursue him.
Sergeant over at LAPD owed me.
And I'm not giving up any names.
But you alerted the LAPD
that you were going to make
an arrest on their turf,
and they alerted me.
Can I go now?
Tell me about that DVD.
Matt loved movies.
His 16th birthday,
Dad surprised him,
gave him a video camera.
He took it everywhere.
After he died, I found
the tape in the camera.
He must have been watching it
the day he killed himself.
Thanks.
Hey, you guys.
We've got some results
for you here.
Once we separated the shadows
and recalibrated
their proper lengths,
the gait analysis
was fairly easy.
All right, now,
the first shadow, here--
that belongs to Matt Burrows.
The next one's a little tougher.
We were able
to match the movement
of the shadow as it ran away.
Mike Nash.
Finally, we have
the individual holding
the, uh, the baseball bat.
Sean Westmark.
Okay. Where's Devin?
Not there.
Unless, of course,
he doesn't have a shadow.
We have proof that you
and Sean raped Arnold Winslow.
Video that Matt took that night.
Where was Devin?
The little wimp was afraid.
Didn't even get out of his car.
He never touched Winslow?
I don't remember seeing
Devin after they jumped me.
But you tried to blackmail him.
Yeah. Why not?
He was there.
Somewhere.
So, what happened
when you contacted him?
He wouldn't pay.
I threatened him with the tape,
and he didn't seem
too concerned.
Devin was always afraid.
He was afraid to...
to fight back,
to stand up for himself.
Winslow raped him,
and this was his chance
to get even.
He couldn't even watch.
Devin was going to cut
a deal for himself.
Testify against
you, Matt and Sean.
Like I said, Devin had no honor.
He had no idea
what loyalty meant.
COLBY:
So, you never
actually had a copy of the tape?
WINSLOW:
No. I bluffed Nash.
I knew he couldn't risk
not paying me.
And I told Sean
if anything happened to me,
that tape was going
to wind up at the L.A. Times.
You mean Mike Nash.
No, I mean Sean.
Mike didn't scare me.
I mean, maybe he pulled
the trigger on Devin,
but Sean pulled all the strings.
It was always that way.
Even as kids.
*
(siren wailing)
* Close your eyes
* And picture this
NIKKI:
Sean Westmark? FBI.
Get back.
You know, this is
where I was tied up.
This is where it all happened.
It was only a couple hours,
you know,
but it felt like an eternity.
You don't realize
what it means to be free
until you're not.
It's over.
We got Winslow.
You know, the whole time,
I'm just thinking,
"Ricky Shuster is gonna get
my spot on the baseball team."
(sniffles)
Put the gun down.
You know, ironically,
I probably would not even be
the same man that I am today
if I'd never met Arnold Winslow.
(chuckles)
(chuckling continues)
You know,
Matt is dead because of him.
Matt's dead because he couldn't
live with the guilt.
No, we agreed
to destroy the videotape.
And Matt didn't.
He couldn't.
Arnold Winslow ruined our lives.
And now,
he's ruining mine again.
How is that fair?
(sniffles, sighs)
* Save yourself
* Save...
-No!
-Don't!
(gunshot)
DON: What kind of story
you think you're going to do?
I don't know.
What story can you tell
when there are no heroes?
Your brother definitely
had his demons, but, I mean,
he did go back to save Winslow.
Yeah, but if he hadn't,
he'd be alive, wouldn't he?
Maybe, but you know,
"He who saves a life
saves the world entire."
Even scum like Arnold Winslow?
I think so.
You should tell that story.
So, you all done?
Uh-huh, yeah.
For another five years.
How did Charlie do
on his polygraph?
Uh, he passed.
The third time.
Don't close up the personnel
files just yet. You forgot one.
One what?
Agent Sinclair.
Woefully behind
on his physical training.
("New Soul"
by Yael Nam playing)
(chuckles):
No.
Oh, yeah.
(whistle blows)
Let's go.
Small feet.
Dinner is served.
-Hey.
-Oh, what a treat.
Does your dad
always cook like this?
Oh, only when he's trying
to impress the boss.
Oh. Mission accomplished.
Hey. What's happening?
Your parking pass, my friend.
-Ah.
-Uh-uh!
Wait a second.
I never got a parking pass.
Why does he get one?
Maybe because I never
killed anyone's gerbil.
Oh, now everybody
knows about that?
Look, we're partners now.
You know? No secrets.
Wow.
Anyway, we are late because...
There is plenty
of beer in the fridge.
But there is no Dom Prignon.
Wow. Well, look at this.
Oh, wow.
-(cork pops)
Charlie and I
are getting married.
Not exactly new information,
you know?
We're getting married...
tomorrow.
DON:
What?
LARRY: Okay,
that's new information.
Got quite some family here,
Eppes.
You're not kidding, are you?
-No.
-Nope.
(chuckles)
Friend of mine once said
that this house is magical.
I think he's right.
Yeah. Cheers.
Cheers.
-Cheers.
Again.
(chuckles)
Oh, at last.
We don't know.
-No.
Somewhere.
-It's all very last-minute.
* La, la, la, la, la, la
* La, la, la, la, la
* Ooh.
(gunshot)